# Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time)

> Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) is derived from TAI to more accurately correspond to solar days. UTC is kept at an offset by a whole number of seconds from TAI. Due to irregularities in Earth's rotation, leap seconds are occasionally introduced by the IERS to increment the offset by one second (or decrement it, but negative leap seconds have not been needed yet) by extending the minute 23:59 of a chosen calendar day to last 61 seconds (or shortening it to 59 seconds, in case of a negative leap second).

> UTC deviates from TAI by a number of whole seconds. As of 1 January 2017, when another [leap second](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leap_second) was put into effect, UTC is currently exactly 37 seconds behind TAI. The 37 seconds result from the initial difference of 10 seconds at the start of 1972, plus 27 leap seconds in UTC since 1972.

> The existence of leap seconds means that the mapping between UTC and timestamps on a continuous, physically representative time scale cannot be computed with simple logico-arithmetical formulas and must involve a table of the published leap seconds. Furthermore, this mapping changes as information about newly introduced leap seconds is disseminated. As a consequence of this, when Alice and Bob must agree on which timestamp a future UTC time refers to or vice versa, their tables of leap seconds must be synchronized.
>
> To round up this introduction, it's worth mentioning that it has been decided at the General Conference on Weights and Measures to sunset leap seconds (pardon my astronomical joke here) by 2035.

> Unsurprisingly, the kind of intricacies needed to properly address the UTC discontinuity events that have only occurred 27 times since 1972 meets pushback from the software industry. Most widely used programming environments do not support leap seconds, performing calculations over calendar time as if the leap seconds did not and will not exist at all (by implication, the solution to a negative leap second is to insert a notional missing second). This permits simple date and time computations on the proleptic Gregorian calendar, with units up to the week being uniform multiples of the second.

## Leap second smear
> NTP, the time synchronization protocol predominantly used on the internet, supports information on leap seconds. However, due to the issues with the system clock APIs described above, companies maintaining large computing infrastructures - [Google](https://developers.google.com/time/smear), [Amazon](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/look-before-you-leap-the-coming-leap-second-and-aws/), [Meta](https://engineering.fb.com/2022/07/25/production-engineering/its-time-to-leave-the-leap-second-in-the-past/) among them - have implemented various leap second smear schemes, where a leap second is absorbed by gradual clock adjustments over some time interval around the discontinuity in actual UTC, leveling back with it at the end of the smear interval. For systems using smeared NTP sources (which all must agree on a particular scheme), the clock will run slow by the order of 10-100 ppm during that interval, which is within accuracy tolerance of hardware clocks used in most computing devices and NTP's acceptable slew rate.